README.md, before:

# Awesome DHTools[![Awesome](https://awesome.re/badge.svg)](https://awesome.re)

[<img src="android-chrome-512x512.png" align="right" width="100">](https://github.com/dh-tech/awesome-dhtools/)

> Tools, resources, and services supporting the Digital Humanities.

This is a curated list of tools, resources, and services supporting the Digital Humanities. [Contributions](CONTRIBUTING.md) are welcome!

## Contents

- [Bibliography and Sources Management](#bibliography-and-sources-management)
- [Corpus linguistics](#corpus-linguistics)
- [Data Collection](#data-collection)
- [Data Analysis](#data-analysis)
- [Data Extraction and Conversion](#data-extraction-and-conversion)
- [Data Annotation](#data-annotation)
- [Data Augmentation](#data-augmentation)
- [DH Centers](#dh-centers)
- [Document Management and Processing](#document-management-and-processing)
- [Journals](#journals)
- [Organizations and Research Infrastructures](#organizations-and-research-infrastructures)
- [Other Resources](#other-resources)
- [Platforms](#platforms)
- [Publishing](#publishing)
- [Tool Building and Rapid Prototyping](#tool-building-and-rapid-prototyping)
- [Twitter](#twitter)
- [User Guides and Training Materials](#user-guides-and-training-materials)
- [Visualization](#visualization)

## Bibliography and Sources Management

- [JabRef](https://www.jabref.org/) - Open source bibliography reference manager.
- [Tropy](https://tropy.org/) - Research Photo Management.
- [Zotero](https://www.zotero.org/) - Free, easy-to-use tool to help you collect, organize, cite, and share research.

## Corpus linguistics

- [CorpusExplorer v2.0](http://www.CorpusExplorer.de) - Software for corpus linguists and text/data mining enthusiasts. The CorpusExplorer combines over 45 interactive visualizations under an user-friendly interface. Routine tasks such as text acquisition, cleaning or tagging are completely automated. The simple interface supports the use in university teaching and leads the users/students to fast and substantial results. The CorpusExplorer is open for many standards (XML, CSV, JSON, R, etc.) and also offers its own software development kit (SDK), which allows you to integrate all functions into your own programs.

## Data Collection

- [OpenArchive](https://open-archive.org/) - Making it easy to store, share, and amplify your mobile media while protecting your identity.
- [Open EU Data Portal](https://data.europa.eu/euodp/en/data/) - European Union open data.
- [Social Feed Manager](https://gwu-libraries.github.io/sfm-ui/) - Open source software that harvests social media data and web resources from Twitter, Tumblr, Flickr, and Sina Weibo.
- [Transkribus](https://transkribus.eu/) - Transcribe. Collaborate. Share and benefit from cutting edge research in Handwritten Text Recognition!
- [Textgrid](https://textgrid.de/) - Open source tools and services support humanistic scholars during the entire process of research, especially in digital scholarly editing.
- [webrecorder.io](https://webrecorder.io/) - Web archiving service anyone can use for free to save web pages.

## Data Analysis

- [Breve](http://hdlab.stanford.edu/breve/) - Visualize and edit tabular data.
- [Data Pen](http://hdlab.stanford.edu/data-pen/) - Framework for humanities researchers to access, explore, and manipulate multidimensional historical data.
- [DocFetcher](http://docfetcher.sourceforge.net/) - Open Source desktop search application.
- [Lexos](http://lexos.wheatoncollege.edu) - Online tool for text analysis.
- [Open Semantic Search](https://www.opensemanticsearch.org/) - Free Software for your own Search Engine, Explorer for Discovery of large document collections, Media Monitoring, Text Analytics, Document Analysis & Text Mining platform based on Apache Solr or Elasticsearch open-source enterprise-search and Open Standards for Linked Data, Semantic Web & Linked Open Data integration.
- [TinEye](https://tineye.com/) - Search by image or image section and find where that image appears online.
- [Voyant](https://voyant-tools.org/) - Reading and analysis environment for digital texts.
- [YouTube Metadata](https://mattw.io/youtube-metadata/)

## Data Extraction and Conversion

- [ImageMagick](https://imagemagick.org/) - Image conversion tool.
- [MuPDF](https://mupdf.com/) - PDF viewer and converter.
- [OCRmyPDF](https://github.com/jbarlow83/OCRmyPDF) - OCR toolkit.
- [Poppler](https://poppler.freedesktop.org/) - PDF toolkit.
- [QPDF](http://qpdf.sourceforge.net/) - PDF toolkit.

## Data Annotation

- [Recogito](https://recogito.pelagios.org/) - Semantic Annotation for images and texts.

## Data Augmentation

- [AutoCat](https://autocat.apps.allenai.org/) - Create simple text classification models online. Provided by the Allen Institute for AI (AI2).

## DH Centers

- [Austrian Centre for Digital Humanities](https://www.oeaw.ac.at/acdh/)
- [DHCenter UNIL-EPFL](https://dhcenter-unil-epfl.com/)
- [Digital Humanities Bern](https://www.dh.unibe.ch/)
- [Digital Humanities Lab - Universität Basel](https://dhlab.philhist.unibas.ch/en/)
- [Humanités numériques Unversity of Geneva](https://www.unige.ch/lettres/humanites-numeriques/fr/accueil/)
- [Humanities + Design a Research Lab at Stanford University](http://hdlab.stanford.edu/)
- [Laboratoire de cultures et humanités digitales de l'Université de Lausanne](https://www.unil.ch/ladhul/fr/home.html)
- [Luxembourg Centre for Contemporary and Digital History](https://www.c2dh.uni.lu/) - Research on new digital methods and tools for historical research and teaching.
- [Roy Rosenzweig Center for History and New Media](https://rrchnm.org/) - Creators of Zotero and other amazing open-source software tools for historians.

## Document Management and Processing

- [Giles Ecosystem](https://diging.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/GECO/overview) - The Giles Ecosystem is a distributed system based on Apache Kafka that allows users to upload documents for text and image extraction. It automatically performs OCR on uploaded images and extracts images and embedded texts from pdf files. The Giles Ecosystem can be easily scaled to accommodate higher workloads.

## Journals

- [Current Research in Digital History](http://crdh.rrchnm.org/) - Annual open-access, peer-reviewed publication of the Roy Rosenzweig Center for History and New Media at George Mason University.

## Organizations and Research Infrastructures

- [ACH](http://ach.org/) - Association for Computers and the Humanities (ACH) is a major professional society for the digital humanities. We support and disseminate research and cultivate a vibrant professional community through conferences, publications, and outreach activities.
- [ADHO](http://adho.org/) - The Alliance of Digital Humanities Organizations (ADHO) promotes and supports digital research and teaching across all arts and humanities disciplines, acting as a community-based advisory force, and supporting excellence in research, publication, collaboration and training.
- [CHAIN](https://mith.umd.edu/chain/) - Coalition of Humanities and Arts Infrastructures and Networks.
- [CHCI](https://chcinetwork.org/) - Consortium of Humanities Centers and Institutes. Currently it has a membership of more than 250 organizations in the Americas, Europe, Africa, Asia, and Pacific Rim. Our members include humanities centers at small, medium, and large colleges and universities, community colleges, independent scholarly societies, research libraries, and other institutes of advanced study.
- [centerNet](http://dhcenternet.org/) - An international network of digital humanities centers.
- [CLARIN](https://www.clarin.eu/) - CLARIN stands for "Common Language Resources and Technology Infrastructure". It is a research infrastructure that was initiated from the vision that all digital language resources and tools from all over Europe and beyond are accessible through a single sign-on online environment for the support of researchers in the humanities and social sciences.
- [DARIAH](https://www.dariah.eu/) - The Digital Research Infrastructure for the Arts and Humanities (DARIAH) aims to enhance and support digitally-enabled research and teaching across the arts and humanities. DARIAH is a network of people, expertise, information, knowledge, content, methods, tools and technologies from its member countries. It develops, maintains and operates an infrastructure in support of ICT-based research practices and sustains researchers in using them to build, analyse and interpret digital resources.
- [DHCH](https://dh-ch.ch/)
- [Digital Humanities Now](http://digitalhumanitiesnow.org/) - Digital Humanities Now is an experimental, edited publication that highlights and distributes informally published digital humanities scholarship and resources from the open web.
- [GO::DH](http://www.globaloutlookdh.org/) - The purpose of Global Outlook::Digital Humanities (GO::DH) is to help break down barriers that hinder communication and collaboration among researchers and students of the Digital Arts, Humanities, and Cultural Heritage sectors in high, mid, and low income economies.

## Other Resources

- [Awesome Digital History](https://github.com/maehr/awesome-digital-history) - A curated list of awesome things related to digital history.
- [Awesome Scientific Writing](https://github.com/writing-resources/awesome-scientific-writing) - A curated list of awesome tools, demos and resources to go beyond LaTeX.
- [Carolina Digital Humanities Initiative Tools Page](http://digitalhumanities.unc.edu/resources/tools/) - It provides a range of platforms, plug-ins, readings, and other items that might be of use for DH researchers.
- [DH Toychest](http://dhresourcesforprojectbuilding.pbworks.com/w/page/69244319/Digital%20Humanities%20Tools) - Guides, tools, and other resources for practical work in the digital humanities by researchers, teachers, and students. Curated by [Alan Liu](http://liu.english.ucsb.edu/), University of California, Santa Barbara.
- [DiRT (Digital Research Tools)](https://dirtdirectory.org/) - The DiRT Directory is a registry of digital research tools for scholarly use. DiRT makes it easy for digital humanists and others conducting digital research to find and compare resources ranging from content management systems to music OCR, statistical analysis packages to mind-mapping software.
- [Digital Textuality Resource Pages](http://digitaltextuality.pbworks.com/w/page/68178062/Digital%20Textuality%20Resource%20Pages) - Inspired by Alan Liu's ToyChest, Kimberly Knight and her students at U. Texas (Dallas) keep in this repository a list of tools for text production, visualization, still image work, sound work, and video and animation; includes some student reviews of tools.
- [Duke University's DH Tools catalog](https://digitalhumanities.duke.edu/tools) - This list includes tools that Duke supports and tools that have been used by Duke digital projects. Some of the tools are made specifically for DH and others that can be re-purposed quite effectively for Humanities research.
- [FID Romanistik](https://www.fid-romanistik.de/forschungsdaten/suche-nach-forschungsdaten/fid-internetressourcen/tools/) - Curated list of tools and resources for digital humanists in German.
- [TAPoR 3](http://tapor.ca/home) - TAPoR is a gateway to the tools used in sophisticated text analysis and retrieval. It was redesigned in order to integrate the DiRT (Digital Research Tools) directory.
- [Taxonomy of Digital Research Activities in the Humanities (TaDiRAH)](http://tadirah.dariah.eu/vocab/) - This taxonomy has been developed for use by community-driven sites and projects that aim to structure information relevant to digital humanities and make it more easily discoverable. The taxonomy is expected to be particularly useful to endeavors aiming to collect information on digital humanities tools, methods, projects, or readings.

## Platforms

- [DHSlack](https://github.com/amandavisconti/DHslack/blob/master/CodeOfConduct.md) - Slack channels for digital humanities scholars.
- [HSS Digital](https://digital.hssonline.org/) - Digital scholarship in the history of science initiative.
- [Perspectives on History](https://www.historians.org/publications-and-directories/perspectives-on-history/digital-history) - The newsmagazine of the American Historical Association.
- [wethink.hypotheses.org](https://wethink.hypotheses.org/) - Collaborative Digital History.
- [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_history) - Digital history is the use of digital media to further historical analysis, presentation, and research.

## Publishing

- [Manifold](https://manifoldapp.org/) - Scholarly publishing and collaborative and social reading platform.
- [Omeka](https://omeka.org/) - Open-source web publishing platform for sharing digital collections and creating media-rich online exhibits.

## Tool Building and Rapid Prototyping

- [JupyterHub Workspace](https://github.com/maltevogl/jupyterworkspace) - The JupyterHub Workspace aims to be a collaborative programming and code-sharing platform. It provides access to browser-based Jupyter Notebooks, which integrate code with explanatory text, and are already used as a new publishing form. Data can be shared using the Nextcloud backend. A single sign-on mechanism simplifies access. By sharing useful code snippets among users, a growing examples collection further lowers the entrance barrier to programming for new DH members.

## Twitter

- [Digital History by @moritzmaehr](https://twitter.com/moritzmaehr/lists/digital-history)
- [Digital Humanities by @GrandjeanMartin](https://twitter.com/GrandjeanMartin/lists/digital-humanities)
- [Digital Humanities by @normanlippert](https://twitter.com/normanlippert/lists/digital-humanities)

## User Guides and Training Materials

- [#dariahTeach](https://teach.dariah.eu/) - An open-source, multilingual, community-driven platform for high-quality teaching and training materials for the digital arts and humanities.
- [DARIAH-CAMPUS](https://campus.dariah.eu/) - A discovery framework and hosting platform for DARIAH learning resources.
- [DH Tools for Beginners](https://medium.com/dh-tools-for-beginners) - A collection of tutorials about DH tools aiming at digital humanities researchers.
- [Digital Humanities Literacy Guidebook](https://cmu-lib.github.io/dhlg/topics/) - Overview on the field of Digital History and Digital Humanities.
- [forText](https://fortext.net) - Collection of german tutorials for the interpretation and visualization of literature.
- [Framework for Information Literacy for Higher Education](http://www.ala.org/acrl/standards/ilframework) - How to teach digital literacy.
- [Intro Cultural Analytics](https://melaniewalsh.github.io/Intro-Cultural-Analytics/welcome.html) - Analyze cultural artifacts with Python.
- [Introduction to Digital Humanities (DH101)](http://dh101.humanities.ucla.edu/) - Collection of resources/online coursebook based on the *Introduction to Digital Humanities (DH101)* course at [UCLA](http://www.ucla.edu/).
- [Missing Semester](https://missing.csail.mit.edu/) - Useful tools that are not taught in class.
- [PARTHENOS Training](https://training.parthenos-project.eu/) -  The PARTHENOS cluster of humanities research infrastructure projects has devised a series of training modules and resources for those who want to learn more about research infrastructures in the Digital Humanities. Contains material about research infrastructures, research data, existing digital collections of use to researchers, guides to ontologies and a catalogue of webinars and training material.
- [The Programming Historian](https://programminghistorian.org/) - Novice-friendly, peer-reviewed tutorials that help humanists learn a wide range of digital tools, techniques, and workflows to facilitate research and teaching.

## Visualization

- [DARIAH-DE Geo-Browser](https://geobrowser.de.dariah.eu/) - Create visualizations with geotagges data.
- [Gephi](https://gephi.org/) - Gephi is the leading visualization and exploration software for all kinds of graphs and networks.
- [Palladio](https://hdlab.stanford.edu/palladio/) - Visualize complex historical data with ease.
- [StorylineJS](http://storyline.knightlab.com/) - Tell the story behind the numbers.
- [StorymapJS](https://storymap.knightlab.com/) - Maps that tell stories.
- [The Vistorian](https://vistorian.net/) - Interactive Visualizations for Dynamic and Multivariate Networks.
- [TimelineJS](https://timeline.knightlab.com/) - Easy-to-make, beautiful timelines.

Commit message:

feat[README.md]: Khartis added

README.md, after:

# Awesome DHTools[![Awesome](https://awesome.re/badge.svg)](https://awesome.re)

[<img src="android-chrome-512x512.png" align="right" width="100">](https://github.com/dh-tech/awesome-dhtools/)

> Tools, resources, and services supporting the Digital Humanities.

This is a curated list of tools, resources, and services supporting the Digital Humanities. [Contributions](CONTRIBUTING.md) are welcome!

## Contents

- [Bibliography and Sources Management](#bibliography-and-sources-management)
- [Corpus linguistics](#corpus-linguistics)
- [Data Collection](#data-collection)
- [Data Analysis](#data-analysis)
- [Data Extraction and Conversion](#data-extraction-and-conversion)
- [Data Annotation](#data-annotation)
- [Data Augmentation](#data-augmentation)
- [DH Centers](#dh-centers)
- [Document Management and Processing](#document-management-and-processing)
- [Journals](#journals)
- [Organizations and Research Infrastructures](#organizations-and-research-infrastructures)
- [Other Resources](#other-resources)
- [Platforms](#platforms)
- [Publishing](#publishing)
- [Tool Building and Rapid Prototyping](#tool-building-and-rapid-prototyping)
- [Twitter](#twitter)
- [User Guides and Training Materials](#user-guides-and-training-materials)
- [Visualization](#visualization)

## Bibliography and Sources Management

- [JabRef](https://www.jabref.org/) - Open source bibliography reference manager.
- [Tropy](https://tropy.org/) - Research Photo Management.
- [Zotero](https://www.zotero.org/) - Free, easy-to-use tool to help you collect, organize, cite, and share research.

## Corpus linguistics

- [CorpusExplorer v2.0](http://www.CorpusExplorer.de) - Software for corpus linguists and text/data mining enthusiasts. The CorpusExplorer combines over 45 interactive visualizations under an user-friendly interface. Routine tasks such as text acquisition, cleaning or tagging are completely automated. The simple interface supports the use in university teaching and leads the users/students to fast and substantial results. The CorpusExplorer is open for many standards (XML, CSV, JSON, R, etc.) and also offers its own software development kit (SDK), which allows you to integrate all functions into your own programs.

## Data Collection

- [OpenArchive](https://open-archive.org/) - Making it easy to store, share, and amplify your mobile media while protecting your identity.
- [Open EU Data Portal](https://data.europa.eu/euodp/en/data/) - European Union open data.
- [Social Feed Manager](https://gwu-libraries.github.io/sfm-ui/) - Open source software that harvests social media data and web resources from Twitter, Tumblr, Flickr, and Sina Weibo.
- [Transkribus](https://transkribus.eu/) - Transcribe. Collaborate. Share and benefit from cutting edge research in Handwritten Text Recognition!
- [Textgrid](https://textgrid.de/) - Open source tools and services support humanistic scholars during the entire process of research, especially in digital scholarly editing.
- [webrecorder.io](https://webrecorder.io/) - Web archiving service anyone can use for free to save web pages.

## Data Analysis

- [Breve](http://hdlab.stanford.edu/breve/) - Visualize and edit tabular data.
- [Data Pen](http://hdlab.stanford.edu/data-pen/) - Framework for humanities researchers to access, explore, and manipulate multidimensional historical data.
- [DocFetcher](http://docfetcher.sourceforge.net/) - Open Source desktop search application.
- [Lexos](http://lexos.wheatoncollege.edu) - Online tool for text analysis.
- [Open Semantic Search](https://www.opensemanticsearch.org/) - Free Software for your own Search Engine, Explorer for Discovery of large document collections, Media Monitoring, Text Analytics, Document Analysis & Text Mining platform based on Apache Solr or Elasticsearch open-source enterprise-search and Open Standards for Linked Data, Semantic Web & Linked Open Data integration.
- [TinEye](https://tineye.com/) - Search by image or image section and find where that image appears online.
- [Voyant](https://voyant-tools.org/) - Reading and analysis environment for digital texts.
- [YouTube Metadata](https://mattw.io/youtube-metadata/)

## Data Extraction and Conversion

- [ImageMagick](https://imagemagick.org/) - Image conversion tool.
- [MuPDF](https://mupdf.com/) - PDF viewer and converter.
- [OCRmyPDF](https://github.com/jbarlow83/OCRmyPDF) - OCR toolkit.
- [Poppler](https://poppler.freedesktop.org/) - PDF toolkit.
- [QPDF](http://qpdf.sourceforge.net/) - PDF toolkit.

## Data Annotation

- [Recogito](https://recogito.pelagios.org/) - Semantic Annotation for images and texts.

## Data Augmentation

- [AutoCat](https://autocat.apps.allenai.org/) - Create simple text classification models online. Provided by the Allen Institute for AI (AI2).

## DH Centers

- [Austrian Centre for Digital Humanities](https://www.oeaw.ac.at/acdh/)
- [DHCenter UNIL-EPFL](https://dhcenter-unil-epfl.com/)
- [Digital Humanities Bern](https://www.dh.unibe.ch/)
- [Digital Humanities Lab - Universität Basel](https://dhlab.philhist.unibas.ch/en/)
- [Humanités numériques Unversity of Geneva](https://www.unige.ch/lettres/humanites-numeriques/fr/accueil/)
- [Humanities + Design a Research Lab at Stanford University](http://hdlab.stanford.edu/)
- [Laboratoire de cultures et humanités digitales de l'Université de Lausanne](https://www.unil.ch/ladhul/fr/home.html)
- [Luxembourg Centre for Contemporary and Digital History](https://www.c2dh.uni.lu/) - Research on new digital methods and tools for historical research and teaching.
- [Roy Rosenzweig Center for History and New Media](https://rrchnm.org/) - Creators of Zotero and other amazing open-source software tools for historians.

## Document Management and Processing

- [Giles Ecosystem](https://diging.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/GECO/overview) - The Giles Ecosystem is a distributed system based on Apache Kafka that allows users to upload documents for text and image extraction. It automatically performs OCR on uploaded images and extracts images and embedded texts from pdf files. The Giles Ecosystem can be easily scaled to accommodate higher workloads.

## Journals

- [Current Research in Digital History](http://crdh.rrchnm.org/) - Annual open-access, peer-reviewed publication of the Roy Rosenzweig Center for History and New Media at George Mason University.

## Organizations and Research Infrastructures

- [ACH](http://ach.org/) - Association for Computers and the Humanities (ACH) is a major professional society for the digital humanities. We support and disseminate research and cultivate a vibrant professional community through conferences, publications, and outreach activities.
- [ADHO](http://adho.org/) - The Alliance of Digital Humanities Organizations (ADHO) promotes and supports digital research and teaching across all arts and humanities disciplines, acting as a community-based advisory force, and supporting excellence in research, publication, collaboration and training.
- [CHAIN](https://mith.umd.edu/chain/) - Coalition of Humanities and Arts Infrastructures and Networks.
- [CHCI](https://chcinetwork.org/) - Consortium of Humanities Centers and Institutes. Currently it has a membership of more than 250 organizations in the Americas, Europe, Africa, Asia, and Pacific Rim. Our members include humanities centers at small, medium, and large colleges and universities, community colleges, independent scholarly societies, research libraries, and other institutes of advanced study.
- [centerNet](http://dhcenternet.org/) - An international network of digital humanities centers.
- [CLARIN](https://www.clarin.eu/) - CLARIN stands for "Common Language Resources and Technology Infrastructure". It is a research infrastructure that was initiated from the vision that all digital language resources and tools from all over Europe and beyond are accessible through a single sign-on online environment for the support of researchers in the humanities and social sciences.
- [DARIAH](https://www.dariah.eu/) - The Digital Research Infrastructure for the Arts and Humanities (DARIAH) aims to enhance and support digitally-enabled research and teaching across the arts and humanities. DARIAH is a network of people, expertise, information, knowledge, content, methods, tools and technologies from its member countries. It develops, maintains and operates an infrastructure in support of ICT-based research practices and sustains researchers in using them to build, analyse and interpret digital resources.
- [DHCH](https://dh-ch.ch/)
- [Digital Humanities Now](http://digitalhumanitiesnow.org/) - Digital Humanities Now is an experimental, edited publication that highlights and distributes informally published digital humanities scholarship and resources from the open web.
- [GO::DH](http://www.globaloutlookdh.org/) - The purpose of Global Outlook::Digital Humanities (GO::DH) is to help break down barriers that hinder communication and collaboration among researchers and students of the Digital Arts, Humanities, and Cultural Heritage sectors in high, mid, and low income economies.

## Other Resources

- [Awesome Digital History](https://github.com/maehr/awesome-digital-history) - A curated list of awesome things related to digital history.
- [Awesome Scientific Writing](https://github.com/writing-resources/awesome-scientific-writing) - A curated list of awesome tools, demos and resources to go beyond LaTeX.
- [Carolina Digital Humanities Initiative Tools Page](http://digitalhumanities.unc.edu/resources/tools/) - It provides a range of platforms, plug-ins, readings, and other items that might be of use for DH researchers.
- [DH Toychest](http://dhresourcesforprojectbuilding.pbworks.com/w/page/69244319/Digital%20Humanities%20Tools) - Guides, tools, and other resources for practical work in the digital humanities by researchers, teachers, and students. Curated by [Alan Liu](http://liu.english.ucsb.edu/), University of California, Santa Barbara.
- [DiRT (Digital Research Tools)](https://dirtdirectory.org/) - The DiRT Directory is a registry of digital research tools for scholarly use. DiRT makes it easy for digital humanists and others conducting digital research to find and compare resources ranging from content management systems to music OCR, statistical analysis packages to mind-mapping software.
- [Digital Textuality Resource Pages](http://digitaltextuality.pbworks.com/w/page/68178062/Digital%20Textuality%20Resource%20Pages) - Inspired by Alan Liu's ToyChest, Kimberly Knight and her students at U. Texas (Dallas) keep in this repository a list of tools for text production, visualization, still image work, sound work, and video and animation; includes some student reviews of tools.
- [Duke University's DH Tools catalog](https://digitalhumanities.duke.edu/tools) - This list includes tools that Duke supports and tools that have been used by Duke digital projects. Some of the tools are made specifically for DH and others that can be re-purposed quite effectively for Humanities research.
- [FID Romanistik](https://www.fid-romanistik.de/forschungsdaten/suche-nach-forschungsdaten/fid-internetressourcen/tools/) - Curated list of tools and resources for digital humanists in German.
- [TAPoR 3](http://tapor.ca/home) - TAPoR is a gateway to the tools used in sophisticated text analysis and retrieval. It was redesigned in order to integrate the DiRT (Digital Research Tools) directory.
- [Taxonomy of Digital Research Activities in the Humanities (TaDiRAH)](http://tadirah.dariah.eu/vocab/) - This taxonomy has been developed for use by community-driven sites and projects that aim to structure information relevant to digital humanities and make it more easily discoverable. The taxonomy is expected to be particularly useful to endeavors aiming to collect information on digital humanities tools, methods, projects, or readings.

## Platforms

- [DHSlack](https://github.com/amandavisconti/DHslack/blob/master/CodeOfConduct.md) - Slack channels for digital humanities scholars.
- [HSS Digital](https://digital.hssonline.org/) - Digital scholarship in the history of science initiative.
- [Perspectives on History](https://www.historians.org/publications-and-directories/perspectives-on-history/digital-history) - The newsmagazine of the American Historical Association.
- [wethink.hypotheses.org](https://wethink.hypotheses.org/) - Collaborative Digital History.
- [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_history) - Digital history is the use of digital media to further historical analysis, presentation, and research.

## Publishing

- [Manifold](https://manifoldapp.org/) - Scholarly publishing and collaborative and social reading platform.
- [Omeka](https://omeka.org/) - Open-source web publishing platform for sharing digital collections and creating media-rich online exhibits.

## Tool Building and Rapid Prototyping

- [JupyterHub Workspace](https://github.com/maltevogl/jupyterworkspace) - The JupyterHub Workspace aims to be a collaborative programming and code-sharing platform. It provides access to browser-based Jupyter Notebooks, which integrate code with explanatory text, and are already used as a new publishing form. Data can be shared using the Nextcloud backend. A single sign-on mechanism simplifies access. By sharing useful code snippets among users, a growing examples collection further lowers the entrance barrier to programming for new DH members.

## Twitter

- [Digital History by @moritzmaehr](https://twitter.com/moritzmaehr/lists/digital-history)
- [Digital Humanities by @GrandjeanMartin](https://twitter.com/GrandjeanMartin/lists/digital-humanities)
- [Digital Humanities by @normanlippert](https://twitter.com/normanlippert/lists/digital-humanities)

## User Guides and Training Materials

- [#dariahTeach](https://teach.dariah.eu/) - An open-source, multilingual, community-driven platform for high-quality teaching and training materials for the digital arts and humanities.
- [DARIAH-CAMPUS](https://campus.dariah.eu/) - A discovery framework and hosting platform for DARIAH learning resources.
- [DH Tools for Beginners](https://medium.com/dh-tools-for-beginners) - A collection of tutorials about DH tools aiming at digital humanities researchers.
- [Digital Humanities Literacy Guidebook](https://cmu-lib.github.io/dhlg/topics/) - Overview on the field of Digital History and Digital Humanities.
- [forText](https://fortext.net) - Collection of german tutorials for the interpretation and visualization of literature.
- [Framework for Information Literacy for Higher Education](http://www.ala.org/acrl/standards/ilframework) - How to teach digital literacy.
- [Intro Cultural Analytics](https://melaniewalsh.github.io/Intro-Cultural-Analytics/welcome.html) - Analyze cultural artifacts with Python.
- [Introduction to Digital Humanities (DH101)](http://dh101.humanities.ucla.edu/) - Collection of resources/online coursebook based on the *Introduction to Digital Humanities (DH101)* course at [UCLA](http://www.ucla.edu/).
- [Missing Semester](https://missing.csail.mit.edu/) - Useful tools that are not taught in class.
- [PARTHENOS Training](https://training.parthenos-project.eu/) -  The PARTHENOS cluster of humanities research infrastructure projects has devised a series of training modules and resources for those who want to learn more about research infrastructures in the Digital Humanities. Contains material about research infrastructures, research data, existing digital collections of use to researchers, guides to ontologies and a catalogue of webinars and training material.
- [The Programming Historian](https://programminghistorian.org/) - Novice-friendly, peer-reviewed tutorials that help humanists learn a wide range of digital tools, techniques, and workflows to facilitate research and teaching.

## Visualization

- [DARIAH-DE Geo-Browser](https://geobrowser.de.dariah.eu/) - Create visualizations with geotagges data.
- [Gephi](https://gephi.org/) - Gephi is the leading visualization and exploration software for all kinds of graphs and networks.
- [Khartis](https://www.sciencespo.fr/cartographie/khartis/en/) - A tool for easy creation of thematic maps in 3 steps from CSV data.
- [Palladio](https://hdlab.stanford.edu/palladio/) - Visualize complex historical data with ease.
- [StorylineJS](http://storyline.knightlab.com/) - Tell the story behind the numbers.
- [StorymapJS](https://storymap.knightlab.com/) - Maps that tell stories.
- [The Vistorian](https://vistorian.net/) - Interactive Visualizations for Dynamic and Multivariate Networks.
- [TimelineJS](https://timeline.knightlab.com/) - Easy-to-make, beautiful timelines.
